README.md, before:

# Facebook Clone 

## Overview
This project is a Facebook clone built. It mimics core Facebook features such as authentication, posting, notifications, and interactive UI components.

## Project Type
Fullstack

## Directory Structure
```

├── .vscode/
│   └── settings.json
├── README.md
├── assets/
│   └── Logo.webp
├── auth/
│   └── auth.js
├── component/
│   ├── HomePage/
│   │   ├── Home.html
│   │   ├── home.css
│   │   ├── home.js
│   │   ├── message/
│   │   │   └── message.html
│   │   ├── navbar/
│   │   │   ├── Logo.webp
│   │   │   ├── navbar.css
│   │   │   ├── navbar.html
│   │   │   └── navbar.js
│   │   ├── notifications/
│   │   │   └── notifications.html
│   │   └── sidebarPage/
│   │       ├── find-friends.css
│   │       ├── find-friends.js
│   │       ├── findFriend.html
│   │       ├── groupPage/
│   │       │   ├── group.html
│   │       │   └── groups.css
│   │       ├── marketPlacePage/
│   │       │   ├── market.html
│   │       │   └── marketplace.css
│   │       ├── memoriesPage/
│   │       │   ├── memories.css
│   │       │   ├── memories.html
│   │       │   └── memories.js
│   │       ├── navbar.js
│   │       ├── savedPage/
│   │       │   ├── saved.css
│   │       │   ├── saved.html
│   │       │   └── saved.js
│   │       └── videoPage/
│   │           ├── video.css
│   │           └── video.html
│   ├── Profile/
│   │   ├── index.html
│   │   ├── nav.js
│   │   ├── profile.css
│   │   └── profile.js
│   └── forgotPassword/
│       ├── forgot-password.css
│       ├── forgot-password.html
│       └── forgot-password.js
├── index.html
├── index.js
└── styles.css
```

## Installation
1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your_username/masai_WEB205_Unit_3_Facebook_clone.git
   ```
2. Live server:
   ```bash
   Open with live server
   ```

### Feature Overview
| Feature | Screenshot |
|---------|------------|
| Login Page | <img src="https://github.com/imRahul05/masai_WEB205_Unit_3_Facebook_clone/blob/main/assets/login.png" alt="Login Page" width="400"/> |
| Sign Up | <img src="https://github.com/imRahul05/masai_WEB205_Unit_3_Facebook_clone/blob/main/assets/signup.png" alt="Sign Up Page" width="400"/> |
| Forgot Password | <img src="https://github.com/imRahul05/masai_WEB205_Unit_3_Facebook_clone/blob/main/assets/forgot-password.png" alt="Forgot Password Page" width="400"/> |
| Home Page | <img src="https://github.com/imRahul05/masai_WEB205_Unit_3_Facebook_clone/blob/main/assets/homepage.png" alt="Home Page" width="400"/> |
| Create Story | <img src="https://github.com/imRahul05/masai_WEB205_Unit_3_Facebook_clone/blob/main/assets/create-story.png" alt="Create Story Feature" width="400"/> |
| Create Post | <img src="https://github.com/imRahul05/masai_WEB205_Unit_3_Facebook_clone/blob/main/assets/create-post.png" alt="Create Post Feature" width="400"/> |
| Messages | <img src="https://github.com/imRahul05/masai_WEB205_Unit_3_Facebook_clone/blob/main/assets/mesage.png" alt="Messages Feature" width="400"/> |
| Notifications | <img src="https://github.com/imRahul05/masai_WEB205_Unit_3_Facebook_clone/blob/main/assets/notification.png" alt="Notifications Feature" width="400"/> |

## Usage

- Open `index.html` in your browser.
- Use the login or create account options to interact with the app.
- Explore additional pages (Home, Profile, Notifications, etc.) via the components.

### Home Page
The home page is located at `Home.html`. It includes the main feed and navigation bar.

### Profile Page
The profile page is located at `index.html`. It displays user information and allows users to update their profile.

### Video Page
The video page is located at `video.html`. It allows users to view and upload videos.

### Navbar
The navigation bar is dynamically included in each page using the `nav.js` file located at `nav.js`. It adjusts the paths based on the current location of the HTML file.

### Authentication
The authentication logic is handled in the `auth.js` file located at `auth.js`.

### Features
- **User Authentication**: Users can log in and log out.
- **Profile Management**: Users can view and update their profile information.
- **Create story and Posts**user can dynamically create posts and story that will go to realtime firebase  and fetched and displayed .
- **Dynamic Navigation Bar**: The navigation bar adjusts paths dynamically based on the current location of the HTML file.


## Credentials
```
Demo mail - sarah@example.com 
Demo password - password123
```


## APIs Used
fireBase Realtime database API

## API Endpoints

All endpoints use the base URL: `https://facebook-ce39f-default-rtdb.firebaseio.com`

### Posts

| Method | Endpoint | Description | Request Body | Response |
|--------|----------|-------------|--------------|-----------|
| GET | `/posts.json` | Fetch all posts | None | Array of post objects |
| PUT | `/posts/${postId}.json` | Create/Update a post | `{ "id": number, "username": string, "profile_pic": string, "content": string, "image": string, "timestamp": string, "likes": number, "comments": array }` | Created/Updated post object |
| PATCH | `/posts/${postId}.json` | Update post content | `{ "content": string }` | Updated post object |
| DELETE | `/posts/${postId}.json` | Delete a post | None | None |

### Stories

| Method | Endpoint | Description | Request Body | Response |
|--------|----------|-------------|--------------|-----------|
| GET | `/stories.json` | Fetch all stories | None | Array of story objects |
| PUT | `/stories/${storyId}.json` | Create a new story | `{ "username": string, "media": string, "timestamp": number }` | Created story object |
| DELETE | `/stories/${storyId}.json` | Delete a story | None | None |

### Example Requests and Responses

#### Fetch Posts
```javascript
GET /posts.json

Response:
{
  "0": {
    "id": 1,
    "username": "John Doe",
    "content": "Hello World!",
    "image": "data:image/jpeg;base64,...",
    "timestamp": "2024-01-01T12:00:00.000Z",
    "likes": 5,
    "comments": ["none"]
  },
  ...
}

PUT /posts/1.json
{
  "id": 2,
  "username": "Sarah",
  "profile_pic": "profile_url",
  "content": "New post content",
  "image": "data:image/jpeg;base64,...",
  "timestamp": "2024-01-01T12:00:00.000Z",
  "likes": 0,
  "comments": ["none"]
}

# Create Post

Response:
```{
  "id": 2,
  "username": "Sarah",
  "profile_pic": "profile_url",
  "content": "New post content",
  "image": "data:image/jpeg;base64,...",
  "timestamp": "2024-01-01T12:00:00.000Z",
  "likes": 0,
  "comments": ["none"]
}
```
# Create Story
PUT /stories/1.json
```
{
  "username": "Sarah",
  "media": "data:image/jpeg;base64,...",
  "timestamp": 1704115200000
}

Response:
{
  "username": "Sarah",
  "media": "data:image/jpeg;base64,...",
  "timestamp": 1704115200000
}
```
## Contributing
1. Fork the repository.
2. Create a new branch (`git checkout -b feature-branch`).
3. Make your changes.
4. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some feature'`).
5. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature-branch`).
6. Open a pull request.


## Contact
If you have any questions or suggestions, feel free to reach out to the project maintainer at `rahulkumar20000516@gmail.com`.


## Screenshots

### Individual Features

#### Authentication
<img src="https://github.com/imRahul05/masai_WEB205_Unit_3_Facebook_clone/blob/main/assets/login.png" alt="Login Page" width="800"/>

#### Home Feed
<img src="https://github.com/imRahul05/masai_WEB205_Unit_3_Facebook_clone/blob/main/assets/homepage.png" alt="Home Page" width="800"/>

#### Story Creation
<img src="https://github.com/imRahul05/masai_WEB205_Unit_3_Facebook_clone/blob/main/assets/create-story.png" alt="Create Story Feature" width="800"/>

#### Messaging
<img src="https://github.com/imRahul05/masai_WEB205_Unit_3_Facebook_clone/blob/main/assets/mesage.png" alt="Messages Feature" width="800"/>

#### Notifications Center
<img src="https://github.com/imRahul05/masai_WEB205_Unit_3_Facebook_clone/blob/main/assets/notification.png" alt="Notifications Feature" width="800"/>

Commit message:

docs: add demo video and tech stack sections to README.md for enhanced project overview

README.md, after:

# Facebook Clone 

## Overview
This project is a Facebook clone built. It mimics core Facebook features such as authentication, posting, notifications, and interactive UI components.

## Project Type
Fullstack

## Demo Video

https://drive.google.com/file/d/YOUR_VIDEO_ID/view

OR

[![Project Demo](https://img.youtube.com/vi/YOUR_VIDEO_ID/0.jpg)](https://drive.google.com/file/d/YOUR_VIDEO_ID/view)

// For a specific section in your README:
### Video Tutorial
▶️ [Watch the demo video](https://drive.google.com/file/d/YOUR_VIDEO_ID/view)

## Directory Structure
```

├── .vscode/
│   └── settings.json
├── README.md
├── assets/
│   └── Logo.webp
├── auth/
│   └── auth.js
├── component/
│   ├── HomePage/
│   │   ├── Home.html
│   │   ├── home.css
│   │   ├── home.js
│   │   ├── message/
│   │   │   └── message.html
│   │   ├── navbar/
│   │   │   ├── Logo.webp
│   │   │   ├── navbar.css
│   │   │   ├── navbar.html
│   │   │   └── navbar.js
│   │   ├── notifications/
│   │   │   └── notifications.html
│   │   └── sidebarPage/
│   │       ├── find-friends.css
│   │       ├── find-friends.js
│   │       ├── findFriend.html
│   │       ├── groupPage/
│   │       │   ├── group.html
│   │       │   └── groups.css
│   │       ├── marketPlacePage/
│   │       │   ├── market.html
│   │       │   └── marketplace.css
│   │       ├── memoriesPage/
│   │       │   ├── memories.css
│   │       │   ├── memories.html
│   │       │   └── memories.js
│   │       ├── navbar.js
│   │       ├── savedPage/
│   │       │   ├── saved.css
│   │       │   ├── saved.html
│   │       │   └── saved.js
│   │       └── videoPage/
│   │           ├── video.css
│   │           └── video.html
│   ├── Profile/
│   │   ├── index.html
│   │   ├── nav.js
│   │   ├── profile.css
│   │   └── profile.js
│   └── forgotPassword/
│       ├── forgot-password.css
│       ├── forgot-password.html
│       └── forgot-password.js
├── index.html
├── index.js
└── styles.css
```

## Installation
1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your_username/masai_WEB205_Unit_3_Facebook_clone.git
   ```
2. Live server:
   ```bash
   Open with live server
   ```

### Feature Overview
| Feature | Screenshot |
|---------|------------|
| Login Page | <img src="https://github.com/imRahul05/masai_WEB205_Unit_3_Facebook_clone/blob/main/assets/login.png" alt="Login Page" width="400"/> |
| Sign Up | <img src="https://github.com/imRahul05/masai_WEB205_Unit_3_Facebook_clone/blob/main/assets/signup.png" alt="Sign Up Page" width="400"/> |
| Forgot Password | <img src="https://github.com/imRahul05/masai_WEB205_Unit_3_Facebook_clone/blob/main/assets/forgot-password.png" alt="Forgot Password Page" width="400"/> |
| Home Page | <img src="https://github.com/imRahul05/masai_WEB205_Unit_3_Facebook_clone/blob/main/assets/homepage.png" alt="Home Page" width="400"/> |
| Create Story | <img src="https://github.com/imRahul05/masai_WEB205_Unit_3_Facebook_clone/blob/main/assets/create-story.png" alt="Create Story Feature" width="400"/> |
| Create Post | <img src="https://github.com/imRahul05/masai_WEB205_Unit_3_Facebook_clone/blob/main/assets/create-post.png" alt="Create Post Feature" width="400"/> |
| Messages | <img src="https://github.com/imRahul05/masai_WEB205_Unit_3_Facebook_clone/blob/main/assets/mesage.png" alt="Messages Feature" width="400"/> |
| Notifications | <img src="https://github.com/imRahul05/masai_WEB205_Unit_3_Facebook_clone/blob/main/assets/notification.png" alt="Notifications Feature" width="400"/> |

## Usage

- Open `index.html` in your browser.
- Use the login or create account options to interact with the app.
- Explore additional pages (Home, Profile, Notifications, etc.) via the components.

### Home Page
The home page is located at `Home.html`. It includes the main feed and navigation bar.

### Profile Page
The profile page is located at `index.html`. It displays user information and allows users to update their profile.

### Video Page
The video page is located at `video.html`. It allows users to view and upload videos.

### Navbar
The navigation bar is dynamically included in each page using the `nav.js` file located at `nav.js`. It adjusts the paths based on the current location of the HTML file.

### Authentication
The authentication logic is handled in the `auth.js` file located at `auth.js`.

### Features
- **User Authentication**: Users can log in and log out.
- **Profile Management**: Users can view and update their profile information.
- **Create story and Posts**user can dynamically create posts and story that will go to realtime firebase  and fetched and displayed .
- **Dynamic Navigation Bar**: The navigation bar adjusts paths dynamically based on the current location of the HTML file.


## Credentials
```
Demo mail - sarah@example.com 
Demo password - password123
```


## APIs Used
fireBase Realtime database API

## API Endpoints

All endpoints use the base URL: `https://facebook-ce39f-default-rtdb.firebaseio.com`

### Posts

| Method | Endpoint | Description | Request Body | Response |
|--------|----------|-------------|--------------|-----------|
| GET | `/posts.json` | Fetch all posts | None | Array of post objects |
| PUT | `/posts/${postId}.json` | Create/Update a post | `{ "id": number, "username": string, "profile_pic": string, "content": string, "image": string, "timestamp": string, "likes": number, "comments": array }` | Created/Updated post object |
| PATCH | `/posts/${postId}.json` | Update post content | `{ "content": string }` | Updated post object |
| DELETE | `/posts/${postId}.json` | Delete a post | None | None |

### Stories

| Method | Endpoint | Description | Request Body | Response |
|--------|----------|-------------|--------------|-----------|
| GET | `/stories.json` | Fetch all stories | None | Array of story objects |
| PUT | `/stories/${storyId}.json` | Create a new story | `{ "username": string, "media": string, "timestamp": number }` | Created story object |
| DELETE | `/stories/${storyId}.json` | Delete a story | None | None |

### Example Requests and Responses

#### Fetch Posts
```javascript
GET /posts.json

Response:
{
  "0": {
    "id": 1,
    "username": "John Doe",
    "content": "Hello World!",
    "image": "data:image/jpeg;base64,...",
    "timestamp": "2024-01-01T12:00:00.000Z",
    "likes": 5,
    "comments": ["none"]
  },
  ...
}

PUT /posts/1.json
{
  "id": 2,
  "username": "Sarah",
  "profile_pic": "profile_url",
  "content": "New post content",
  "image": "data:image/jpeg;base64,...",
  "timestamp": "2024-01-01T12:00:00.000Z",
  "likes": 0,
  "comments": ["none"]
}

# Create Post

Response:
```{
  "id": 2,
  "username": "Sarah",
  "profile_pic": "profile_url",
  "content": "New post content",
  "image": "data:image/jpeg;base64,...",
  "timestamp": "2024-01-01T12:00:00.000Z",
  "likes": 0,
  "comments": ["none"]
}
```
# Create Story
PUT /stories/1.json
```
{
  "username": "Sarah",
  "media": "data:image/jpeg;base64,...",
  "timestamp": 1704115200000
}

Response:
{
  "username": "Sarah",
  "media": "data:image/jpeg;base64,...",
  "timestamp": 1704115200000
}
```

## Tech Stack
1. HTML
2. CSS
3. javaScript


## Contributing
1. Fork the repository.
2. Create a new branch (`git checkout -b feature-branch`).
3. Make your changes.
4. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some feature'`).
5. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature-branch`).
6. Open a pull request.


## Contact
If you have any questions or suggestions, feel free to reach out to the project maintainer at `rahulkumar20000516@gmail.com`.


## Screenshots

### Individual Features

#### Authentication
<img src="https://github.com/imRahul05/masai_WEB205_Unit_3_Facebook_clone/blob/main/assets/login.png" alt="Login Page" width="800"/>

#### Home Feed
<img src="https://github.com/imRahul05/masai_WEB205_Unit_3_Facebook_clone/blob/main/assets/homepage.png" alt="Home Page" width="800"/>

#### Story Creation
<img src="https://github.com/imRahul05/masai_WEB205_Unit_3_Facebook_clone/blob/main/assets/create-story.png" alt="Create Story Feature" width="800"/>

#### Messaging
<img src="https://github.com/imRahul05/masai_WEB205_Unit_3_Facebook_clone/blob/main/assets/mesage.png" alt="Messages Feature" width="800"/>

#### Notifications Center
<img src="https://github.com/imRahul05/masai_WEB205_Unit_3_Facebook_clone/blob/main/assets/notification.png" alt="Notifications Feature" width="800"/>
